src/reference_implementations/prompting_vector_llms/llm_prompting_examples/README.md, before:

## Prompting of LLMs on Vector's Cluster

For an in-depth desription of each of these tasks see the notebooks or the upper readme at `src/reference_implementations/prompting_vector_llms/README.MD`

## VENV Installation

The notebooks in this folder require certain dependencies. Before spinning up the notebooks on a GPU through the cluster, following the instructions in the top level [README](/README.md), make sure you source the `prompt_engineering` environment with the command

```bash
source /ssd003/projects/aieng/public/prompt_engineering/bin/activate
```

If you're running the notebooks launched through the Jupyter Hub, simply select `prompt_engineering` from the available kernels and you should be good to go.

If you want to create your own environment that you can modify, then you can do so by creating your own virtual environment with the command
```
python -m venv <name_of_venv>
```
then
```
source <name_of_venv>/bin/activate
```
and finally
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Commit message:

Paring down the repository to only the reference implementations relevant to this iteration of the lab. Updating all of the READMEs and other markdowns to reflect this change. Also fixing some typos and adding information associated with the new additions to the repository for this iteration.

src/reference_implementations/prompting_vector_llms/llm_prompting_examples/README.md, after:

## Prompting of LLMs on Vector's Cluster

For an in-depth description of each of these tasks see the notebooks or the upper readme at `src/reference_implementations/prompting_vector_llms/README.MD`

## VENV Installation

The notebooks in this folder require certain dependencies. Before spinning up the notebooks on a GPU through the cluster, following the instructions in the top level [README](/README.md), make sure you source the `prompt_engineering` environment with the command

```bash
source /ssd003/projects/aieng/public/prompt_engineering/bin/activate
```

If you're running the notebooks launched through the Jupyter Hub, simply select `prompt_engineering` from the available kernels and you should be good to go.

If you want to create your own environment that you can modify, then you can do so by creating your own virtual environment with the command
```
python -m venv <name_of_venv>
```
then
```
source <name_of_venv>/bin/activate
```
and finally
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
where `requirements.txt` is housed at the top level of the repository
